---
layout: post
title: Week 2 Blog Post!
---

After a full week of Object Oriented Programming, I've formed some more definite opinions about the class. 

First of all, while I don't think the class is "easy", I would definitely say that it's...very well structured. I hesitate to say that Downing holds your hand through the projects, but every single step in at least the first project is ridiculously well defined and detailed. This may be because the class is primarily catered to those with zero software engineering experience. While I don't think that's necessarily a mistake by Downing, it can feel rather stifling if you're an individual with experience with the tools Downing is advocating (I'm talking primarily about git, unit testing, and continuous integration).

Second, I haven't quite felt that we've learned any object oriented programming yet. That's probably going to come in the future (I hope). Right now, we're just covering software engineering practices and tools very in depth. While that's definitely a valuable thing to cover, it's not quite what I signed up for in the Object Oriented Programming. I guess at least at the beginning of the courses, Downing teaches Software Engineering and OOP more or less the same. 

So, uh, quizzes. I didn't do too hot on the first two quizzes since I wasn't prepared, but the third quiz went way better for me. In OOP, every day at the beginning of class, Downing records attendance and then puts up a quiz for people to do through TopHat. You're given a minute or two to do each question and submit a multiple choice answer for it. Questions cover what we've discussed in class, something from the readings, or critical thinking problems typically related to the project we're currently assigned.

With that in mind, my tip of the week for this week is to READ THE PAPERS. It'll save you a lot of points on the quizzes and honestly, they're worth reading.

-Naeem Quddus
