---
layout: post
title: Week 3 Blog Post!
---

During this week of Object Oriented Programming, two noteworthy things happened. The first was that we had a class day dedicated to an outside speaker. The second is that I worked on the first project (Collatz).

The speaker was an engineer from Bloomberg named Chris Martin. Since over the summer, I worked at Bloomberg, I knew Chris beforehand. Chris is a very smart, capable guy and he was very helpful during the Bloomberg hackathon to all the interns, so it was no surprise that he had pretty good advice for the class. One thing that he talked about that I personally need to work on is a portfolio; he claims having example of code that resume reviewers can look at can be very helpful in landing interviews. Though it's somewhat of a pain putting up your code so the public can see, especially if you haven't worked on many non school projects like myself, I can see it being very useful to recruiters so that they can have a concrete example of a candidate's coding abilities through their resume. 

On the topic of the first project, I'll start by saying that I found it easy, though tedious. As this was the first project, there was basically very little complexity to the code and almost everything was detaile in class. However, managing all the necessary tools (Travis, doxygen, etc) was somewhat difficult even though I already had experience with git and continuous integration tools. I can understand why Downing made the first assignment so easy and gave such incredibly detailed instructions as I can imagine students getting lost in trying to use all these new tools. I expected the project to take around 12 hours based off of what other students were telling me (I didn't begin until Thursday) but I managed to complete the project in about 7.5. Next time, I don't think the code will be so simplistic, so I won't procrastinate as heavily to ensure I don't cut it so close to the deadline. 

-Naeem Quddus

Tip of the week: Read through piazza while working on class projects. If you have a question that needs clarifying, odds are someone else had the same questions and you'll find an answer, or someone else will have that question and you can do a service to the rest of the class by making a post about it.
